1 
Order for Enforcement of the Act on Land and 
Building Leases 
 
(Cabinet Order No. 187 of May 2, 2022) 
 
The Cabinet hereby enacts this Cabinet Order pursuant to the provisions of 
Article 38, paragraph (4) of the Act on Land and Building Leases (Act No. 90 of 
1991). 
(1) The consent under the provisions of Article 38, paragraph (4) of the Act on 
Land and Building Leases is to be obtained by a lessor of a building by a means 
specified by Ministry of Justice Order which is in writing or by a means using 
an electronic data processing system or any other means that uses information 
and communications technology (referred to as a "document, etc." in the 
following paragraph) from the lessee of the building, by indicating to the lessee 
of the building the type and content of the electronic or magnetic means to be 
used to provide the matters by electronic or magnetic means under the 
provisions of that paragraph in advance, as specified by Ministry of Justice 
Order. 
(2) Even if a lessor of a building has obtained the consent referred to in the 
preceding paragraph, when the lessee of the building related to that consent 
has made a notification in writing or by equivalent means to the effect that 
they will not receive provision of the matters by electronic or magnetic means 
under the provisions of Article 38, paragraph (4) of the Act on Land and 
Building Leases, the lessor must not provide the matters by the electronic or 
magnetic means; provided, however, that this does not apply if the lessor has 
obtained the consent referred to in the preceding paragraph at another time 
from the lessee of the building after the notification has been made. 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
 
This Cabinet Order comes into effect as of the date on which the provisions of 
Article 35 of the Act on the Arrangement of Related Laws for the Formation of a 
Digital Society (Act No. 37 of 2021) comes into effect (May 18, 2022). 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
